.TH DDO 1 "2025-01-01" "1.0.0" "Debian Desktop Optimizer"
.SH NAME
ddo \- Debian Desktop Optimizer CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ddo
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBddo\fR removes unnecessary language packs, fonts, dictionaries,
input methods, games and optional desktop components from a fresh
Debian installation.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B analyze
Scan the system and show what can be removed without making changes.
.TP
.B cleanup
Remove bloatware based on your saved configuration.
.TP
.B dry-run
Preview cleanup without removing anything.
.TP
.B restore
Reinstall packages from a rollback checkpoint.
.TP
.B update
Update the package database and upgrade all packages.
.TP
.B list-languages
Display installed language-related packages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-config PATH
Path to an alternative config.yaml file.
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Simulate only — do not remove anything.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Show help message.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/ddo/config.yaml
User configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/ddo/logs/ddo.log
Application log (rotating, max 5 MiB).
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/ddo/rollback/
Rollback JSON snapshots.
.SH EXAMPLES
Analyse the system:
.RS
.B ddo analyze
.RE
.PP
Perform a cleanup keeping English and French:
.RS
.B ddo cleanup --config ~/.config/ddo/config.yaml
.RE
.PP
Preview what would be removed:
.RS
.B ddo dry-run
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt (8),
.BR dpkg (1)
.SH LICENSE
GPL-3.0-only
.SH AUTHORS
Debian Desktop Optimizer Contributors
